.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2020 James Cuzella <james.cuzella@lyraphase.com>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH RANGE2CIDR 1 "June  9 2020"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
range2cidr \- program to convert iblocklist IP ranges to CIDR format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B range2cidr
.RI [ options ] " IP-RANGE" ...
.br
.B range2cidr
.RI [ options ] " < files" ...
.br
cat files... |
.B range2cidr
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B range2cidr
command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBrange2cidr\fP is a program that converts iblocklist / bluetack style
IP ranges to CIDR format.
.SH INTRODUCTION
This program takes input as IP ranges with dash separated (`-') pairs,
and converts these into their equivalent CIDR range notation(s).

For example:
.TP
 IP-RANGE
.RS 10
 => CIDR(s)
.RE
.TP
 1.22.65.175-1.22.65.175
.RS 10
 => 1.22.65.175/32
.RE
.TP
 192.168.0.0-192.168.255.255
.RS 10
 => 192.168.0.0/16
.RE
.TP
 86.66.128.0-86.70.225.255
.RS 10
 => 86.66.128.0/17
    86.67.0.0/16
    86.68.0.0/15
    86.70.0.0/17
    86.70.128.0/18
    86.70.192.0/19
    86.70.224.0/23
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
For a complete description, see the Info files.
.PP
.I range2cidr
accepts the following options.
.TP
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.BI \-f " filename"
.TP
.PD
.BI \-\^\-file " filename"
.TP
.PD
.BI \-\^\-file "=filename"
Read the IP range input from the file
.IR filename ,
instead of from the first command line argument.
.br
Multiple
.B \-f
(or
.BR \-\^\-file )
options may be used.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-?
.TP
.PD
.BI \-\^\-help
.TP
.PD
.BI \-\^\-usage
Display brief usage message
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipcalc (1),
.BR sipcalc (1).
.SH AUTHOR
.br
Michele Santullo
.RS 4
range2cidr creator.
.RE
James Cuzella
.RS 4
modifications to support command line flags, autotools integration, and Debian packaging.
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT
.br
Copyright © 2017 Michele Santullo
Copyright © 2020 James Cuzella
.RE
.br
This manual page was written by James Cuzella <james.cuzella@lyraphase.com>, for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

